Good morning.
Welcome to our session.
Today we're going to be talking about,
well,
network security best practices for OS X.
Before we get going,
I just want to do a little housekeeping
and introduce my co-presenters.
So rather than you having to hear
me for an hour drone on about OS X,
I have some cast members over here
and I'll introduce them in order
of appearance because I don't
think we do that on the slides.
First coming up will be David O'Rourke.
David's one of our engineering managers
and David's responsible for directory
services and authentication within OS X.
After Dave, we'll have John Hurley.
John is our security
policy architect for OS X.
And John just recently became
a famous Apple employee.
He doesn't know I'm going to do this.
John is actually the only
Apple employee I think ever
to get his picture in the OS.
I don't think Steve has
even been able to do this.
If you poke around,
you might be able to find it later.
Maybe we'll have a prize whoever can
find John by the end of this session.
And then finally,
Sean Geddes will be joining us.
So I think the best way to frame
this discussion today is to just
admit that you're all intelligent
people and you know your networks
better than anybody else.
And they're all very different.
Some are standalone networks,
don't require any passwords at all.
Some have light security requirements.
Others are very heavy,
globally dispersed, VPN access,
Kerberos requirements for authentication.
So rather than to tell you
this is the way to plug it
into this particular network,
we're going to let you make that
decision yourself and let you,
arm you with the information rather,
to give you the tools,
let you know what's in OS X so
you can go back and make the right
decisions for your own network.
So when we talk about
network security at Apple,
this is the definition we work from here.
There's many varied
definitions out there.
Also, if you look at,
you do a little web research
on network security,
you'll find all kinds.
Varied things, different policies,
ways you set up your policies,
all the way down to how
to secure your firewall.
So this is what we're
going to work with today.
So the focus at Apple first is really
communication and data security.
For us, it's about not just storage
of your information,
keeping that secure, but rather how it
traverses the network too.
So the data is what we're really
trying to secure and how do we do that.
First, we control access to it,
to system and services through
authentication and authorization.
And then finally,
the management of that access,
which is very important.
So our design philosophy is
really put it in at the core.
Let's not put it on later on.
Let's build it right in.
OS X was a brand new operating system and
allowed us to really take a look at it.
And our security policy architect, John,
was very instrumental in that.
We took the conservative approach.
This, surprisingly, is fairly new.
Most folks didn't lock down the ports.
We'll get into more of this later.
But a lot of new installs of some
very famous operating systems,
I won't mention them here,
are quite open to exploits
right out of the box.
The OS, open source.
So everybody here can look at the
code and make sure it's secure.
There's no back doors.
That can be verified.
Open standards.
Why are they good?
We'll get into that later as well.
And, of course, the Apple trademark,
easy to use and manage.
If security is not easy,
it just won't be used.
People will just turn it off,
and that's no good.
So you've got to make it easy to use.
So like I said,
security at the core of the OS.
At the core is Unix.
So we leverage the Unix
core that's already in there
with the file permissions,
the services are built right in,
your home directories and file
permissions are all set to segregate
your information from other users.
Multiple accounts is built right in,
and then protected memory.
So if a rogue app gets
a hold of the system,
it's not going to crash it
by taking over the memory.
Like I said, conservative defaults.
Services are off by default.
No FTP servers.
Web servers are off.
All ports are closed.
It's locked down.
The root account is disabled.
[Transcript missing]
So what is true security?
There's a famous quote here from Bruce.
What I believe is what Bruce is
trying to tell us is that
physical security is paramount.
The basis for all security
is physical security.
Once that's compromised,
once somebody gets a
hold of your machine,
it's all over.
You may have the best encryption
on there in the world,
but if I hit it with a sledgehammer,
there goes your data.
So let's talk about the
physical security within OS X,
and also there's some enhancements
OS X has for physical security and
Apple's security built into its products.
Of course, you can lock the cases so
they don't get removed.
Apple has a lot of experience
in the education market,
and things tend to
disappear from universities.
Maybe the kids are just borrowing them.
I don't know.
Once you lock it,
you can protect the memory,
protect all the critical
components of that computer,
and it protects the firmware settings,
which we'll talk about in just a second.
And then server.
Server's got a lot of
neat security features.
If the front of the case is locked,
you can't mount FireWire hard drives,
you can't mount USB.
Also, there's a monitoring system in it,
so if the case becomes open,
it can alert you to that.
Thank you.
So open firmware security.
Just by a show of hands,
I can kind of see you out there.
Does anybody know about
open firmware security?
Oh, great, a bunch of you.
So I can't say enough about this.
This really enhances physical security.
So if, for those of you who don't know,
it's analogous to the
Windows BIOS password lock,
analogous.
But it disables the
snag keys from startup.
So if I turn on open firmware security,
which is a free download from apple.com,
you can't boot off of a security.
You can't boot off of a network drive.
I won't even mount.
It won't turn it into target mode,
which can be kind of a security
problem if the thing just turns
into a FireWire hard drive.
A little laughter up front, yeah.
By the way, it said down there it's
a superset of IEEE 1275,
and a little trivia,
IEEE 1275 is the only
standard to have its own song.
I don't know if you knew that.
You go to the website
and you can listen to it.
So the security services within OS X,
like I said before, authorization,
authentication,
we have the crypto built in,
and the certificate handling.
John will jump into that in
a lot of depth and give you
a good understanding of that.
But that's really the core around,
the wrapper, if you will,
around the Unix core.
So authorization controls,
once I figure out who that user is,
what can I let them do within the system?
We've got a couple nifty little apps
built into server and the desktop itself.
Some may or may not be familiar with,
but you can limit what the users can do.
As you know, ROS has,
you have an admin and you have a user,
if you will,
but you can tweak the controls to limit
really what's going on within that OS.
We'll go into that as well.
So as you can see here, just for a user,
this is just local,
and Dave will get into
more of the global,
more scalable authentication,
or excuse me,
authorization and authentication.
But you can see you can
limit what the user does.
So in a very small shop,
this is a great way to keep
people from hacking their machines
or the network themselves,
so you don't have to go back
and redo what they've done,
repair the damage.
So now I'll bring up Dave.
Thank you.
Sure.
For those of you who haven't
seen me too much this conference,
my name is David O'Rourke.
I'm going to be here to briefly go over
authentication and directory services.
We went into a lot more detail on
these topics in session 607 and 610.
If you didn't have an
opportunity to catch me,
I'd recommend you get the developer DVDs.
We go into a lot of excellent detail,
and we're going to be going over things
that are pretty high level at this point.
Thank you.
So authentication services.
Most,
if you type a password into Mac OS X,
99 times out of 100,
it will flow all the way down
and hit directory services.
So all password authentication is done
using the open directory architecture.
The reason we do that is we want,
not only does Apple want to provide
a variety of ways for users'
passwords to be authenticated,
but we also want you to be able
to plug into the open directory
architecture and authenticate users
however you see fit for your site.
So it's both a solution for Apple and an
opportunity for developers and customers.
What Apple provides in terms of
network-based authentication is
we provide a password server,
which provides support for
legacy authentication protocols.
This is secure on the network.
You cannot download hashes.
The only authentication methods
it supports are secure challenge
response authentications.
And as you may have heard at
the conference once or twice,
we're offering and really
going forward with Kerberos.
So moving forward,
we take authentication services
on the network very seriously.
We're integrating them
into open directory.
We already offer some very credible
and very good authentication services.
We're also offering a lot of
security around the password server,
and we're moving aggressively
into the Kerberos space.
For enterprise architecture, again,
Open Directory enables integration
with existing directory services.
We support LDAP,
we support NIS or Yellow Pages,
for those of you who have
been around quite a while,
NetInfo, Active Directory,
and local BSD configuration files.
The Open Directory Server is a
LDAP server that offers SSL support.
It is based on OpenLDAP 2.18 currently,
is what you have on your Panther build.
We'll be investigating,
updating to the latest builds.
I've heard there's some
later builds of OpenLDAP.
We have a very easy-to-use
open setup assistant.
It's like three clicks
to deploy an LDAP server,
and it's entirely based on OpenLDAP.
You can download the source.
You can look at it.
We have some changes.
All of the changes will be posted
back to the Darwin website.
For those of you not,
who didn't get a chance
to go to session 610,
this is the open directory architecture.
The blue boxes at the bottom would
represent applications such as login
window or maybe the authentication
dialogue that comes up when you click
on the lock icon in system preferences.
Most of the time, those end up calling
the open directory APIs.
The open directory APIs figure out which
plug-in is hosting that user record,
and then we engage with whatever
directory system has been configured
to conduct an authentication.
Our authentication is no better or
no worse than the directory system
that you deploy at your site.
If you're comfortable with the directory
system that you've deployed at your site,
the authentication method that's
using open directory is exactly
as secure as that deployment.
If your directory system is not secure,
open directory cannot add
security to that environment.
So you can have a mix of clients.
You can have Macintoshes on the
network sharing directory data.
You can distribute the directories
and force the Macintoshes to use
a particular directory system
through your DHCP infrastructure.
LDAP can be there.
We have the authentication
authority record,
which lets you actually mix
user records in the directory.
So you could have some
users that are crypt-based.
You could have some users that
are password server-based,
and you could have some users
that are Kerberos-based.
The authentication authority lets
you pick the appropriate security
for your user records at your site.
And home directories can be mounted
over authenticated protocols.
We already support
AFP-authenticated home directories.
We support SMB and
Panther SMB home directories.
So you're not mounting
home directories over NFS,
which I've heard historically
may have some security concerns.
The open directory authentication
is entirely standards-based.
The password server is not
something we built from scratch.
It is something we built from scratch
around an open source protocol,
and that protocol was Sassl.
Sassl is very secure.
It doesn't support clear
text authentication.
Well, it can, but we've removed it.
And you can add, it's modular,
and you can add new authentication
methods to the Sassl server
without a lot of effort.
The password server also
provides policy enforcement.
How many of you have policy
enforcement at your site?
You want the users to
change every 30 days,
minimum password length,
character set enforcement,
must contain a symbol.
Wow, for a security conference,
I want to see more hands.
So you need to deploy the open
directory password server.
We can do all of those security
enforcements and make sure that
the passwords your users are
choosing are not guessable,
have high quality,
and are changed frequently
enough to matter.
The password server will also
disable inactive accounts.
Say you have a contractor on site and he
hasn't logged on in the past three weeks,
and you don't want him coming
back and logging on without
checking with you first.
You can set up the password server
to disable inactive accounts
that haven't logged on recently.
The password server also
provides one very unique feature,
which is you have the same
password for multiple services.
If you deploy multiple Mac OS X servers
or other servers and point them at
our LDAP server with password server,
you get one password for
all of your services.
You get the same password for IMAP as
you get for AFP as you get for SMB.
They don't even have to be deployed
on the same physical server.
So that means the password quality
that you're enforcing in one protocol
carries over to the other protocols.
That means when the account is disabled,
it's disabled for all of the protocols.
Thank you.
Kerberos.
How many people have Kerberos
deployed at their site?
Yes.
We are going with Kerberos
in a very big way.
Kerberos, I believe,
stands for the three-headed dog
that guards the gates of hell.
I thought that was a very
interesting choice by the original
Kerberos team as their product.
We are basing all of our Kerberos
work on MIT's Kerberos work.
We simply take the MIT source code,
enhance it,
and integrate it with our work.
This is going to be Apple's single
sign-on strategy moving forward.
Next year, you're going to hear
even more about Kerberos.
We're aggressively Kerberizing
a lot of applications.
We already have Kerberized Mail.
There's a third-party product
for Fetch for Kerberized FTP.
Telnet is Kerberized,
although we turn it off.
AFP is Kerberized.
And in Panther, SMB is Kerberized.
And what's not on this list is
Panther is going to have Kerberized SSH.
So look for more Kerberized
protocols coming from Apple.
Look for a Kerberos
server in Panther server.
You will be able to deploy a Kerberos
server with the same amount of clicks
as it takes to deploy an LDAP server
because you won't have a choice.
If you turn on the LDAP server,
you have also deployed a Kerberos server.
Workgroup Manager.
How many of you use Managed Desktop?
Okay.
For those of you who
have already used it,
you've recognized that you can
put all of your policy management
information in the directory.
So you can have your LDAP directory
host your dock preferences,
your security preferences.
Well,
the tool that you use to modify those
preferences and force your users into
those architectures is Workgroup Manager.
Workgroup Manager allows
you to manage groups,
users, and computers.
You can enforce privileges per computer,
you can enforce privileges per workgroup,
and you can enforce privileges per user.
It controls access to software, hardware,
and network resources,
so I can control which applications
a user can and can't run.
Many K-12 sites disable the
student's launching terminal.
If they can't run terminal,
they can't run command line tools,
it kind of limits their ability
to hack around in the system.
You can manage system preferences.
You can manage which system
preferences a user can do.
You can force energy saver settings,
a whole ton of things.
There's a whole session on the
details of managed desktop.
I recommend you look at it.
But WorkRoot Manager is
our directory-based tool
that lets you do that.
And because WorkRoot Manager is
based on open directory,
you can put those preferences into any
directory system that you've deployed.
We store it in our LDAPv3 server,
but if you configure open LDAP to,
or if you configure open directory to
point at a different directory server,
you can use WorkRoot Manager to get
the Mac OS X policy information into
the directory server of your choice.
We have one customer we're working
with who's writing a plug-in
for open directory to Oracle.
He's going to make the
plug-in read-write.
He's going to use WorkRoot Manager to
shove policy information into his
Oracle database to manage his desktops.
So what I'd like to do at this
time is bring up John Hurley to
talk about security services,
and I thank you for your time.
Great.
Thanks, Dave.
As Eric mentioned, I'm John Hurley,
the security policy architect,
and I'll go over actually at a pretty
high level some of the different
security pieces that we have sort
of at the lower level of the OS.
We have had a couple of sessions already,
one on Monday on security
overview and another session,
I think, yesterday on certificate APIs.
We have a feedback forum this afternoon,
so just a few other pointers.
So kind of the core of,
I guess it's really our
middle layer of security,
is the common data security architecture.
And this is an open group standard
that was originally developed by
Intel that we actually used on OS 9
and have continued to use in OS X.
We've implemented the
2.1 version of the spec.
And this is responsible for
doing all the cryptography,
the certificates, things like that.
So that's a very important building
block for the security on our system.
We have,
rather than just taking this one set
of APIs and just sort of pushing that
out as a very extensive set of APIs,
we've added another layer on top of
that that we call layered services to
try and make it easy for developers to
use these services without having to
know all the gory details down below.
So, for example,
Keychain is all built kind of
on top of this higher level.
A lot of things that
you may not think about,
say, for example, Safari,
that is calling through
to secure transport,
which calls through to CDSA.
And so if you're changing
things in the certificate
root cert database down below,
that's going to be used by Safari.
It's going to be used by anybody
else that's using those APIs.
So we're really encouraging
developers to use those APIs.
So that they can get the consistent
experience for their users.
It is a very customizable API.
You can write different
modules to do different things.
For example, different security trust
policies for certificates.
Perry went into pretty
good detail of that.
You can check that out on the DVDs.
We have done...
Almost everything that's in there
that's not UI is open source.
So if you want to see
how we did something,
say the authorization framework
or how we did secure transport,
that stuff is available
in the Darwin repository.
So here's kind of a simplified
overview of how CDSA is put together,
and you can see the different
layers that we have there.
The bottom layer are the plug-in modules.
Cryptographic service providers are,
excuse me,
they implement all the different
cryptography algorithms,
AES, triple DES, things like that,
you know, hashes like SHA-1 and MD5.
Certificate library and trust
policy module deal with managing and
[Transcript missing]
So here's just one example
of the certificate UI.
It's kind of a portion
of a screenshot there.
But we have put in really good support
on Panther for dealing with certificates.
And something that I'm really happy with,
we did the best we could for Jaguar.
We tried to get a useful subset,
but it's just very,
very difficult to implement this
full standard and really get
it working the way it should.
It's not the way that Mac users expect,
you know, just very, very easy to use.
We also wanted to make it very,
very easy for developers because
we knew what a pain in the
neck it was to have to deal,
you know,
to write this screen and looking up,
you know, a zillion different fields and
trying to figure out what the
standard said about how they should
be presented or what the values were.
We just didn't want people to
have to go through that same pain.
So we tried to make it available.
And I think we did a really
nice job in Panther with that.
We have support for a lot of
different certificate formats.
So, for example, PEM format certificates.
If you take a, you know,
a .cer from another platform,
you can double click on it and it'll
be imported into your key chain.
We can handle
Simple PKCS 12 format.
So, you know, for example,
if you have an identity that you got
from VeriSign or someplace like that,
you can import that into the keychain.
It doesn't support things like nested,
you know, multiply nested PKCS 12 files,
but you probably won't run into those.
We also have added support for CRLs,
and we have a really nice UI for dealing
with user management of trust settings.
So you can say, okay, for this particular
certificate that I have,
I only want to trust it
for SSL transactions,
you know, use on a web page.
Or you can say, no,
I want to be able to send,
sign an encrypted email
with this certificate.
So the user can choose
those kind of things.
Or they can say things like,
don't ever trust this certificate.
I just know that it's bad.
It might say that it's good, whatever.
Just don't trust it.
This is kind of a brief list
of things that I mentioned
that are supported in the CSP.
So, you know, we really try and use
AES because that is the,
you know,
officially supported standard by NIST.
It's kind of actually
amazing to me to see...
[Transcript missing]
Okay, so I mentioned briefly
before that disk copy uses...
nd then we'll have a little bit
of a look at the CDSA framework
and the algorithms in there.
This encrypted disk copy
images are a really,
really cool feature.
If you don't know -- actually,
let me ask, how many people know about
encrypted disk copy images?
Okay, good.
For anybody that didn't raise their hand,
you've got to learn about it.
It's a very, very cool thing.
We've made it easier in Panther for
users to use it and in some cases
kind of made it transparent,
like, for example,
FileVault is underneath that.
It's using a lot of the same things.
an encrypted image.
Even if you're not using that,
you can create them from the
command line or using disk utility.
It's moved from the disk copy
application into disk utility on Panther.
But these images can be growable.
You can make them pretty small.
I have one on -- I think I have
one of these little devices here.
This one actually has a
fingerprint reader on it.
So I have true three factor
authentication on this.
Something I have,
something I know which is
the password to the encrypted
image that's stored on here,
and something I am,
which is my fingerprint.
So this is cool stuff.
You can put in your PGP keys.
You can put in a copy of your key chain.
I don't know.
It's just very useful.
The other thing to note about it is
that they're very high performance.
So it's, I mean, you can imagine all the
things that it depends on.
But just the particular
test system we had set up,
it took like about 10% over the CPU,
or sorry,
10% over the disk speed overhead.
So it was just a little bit,
it was almost free, but not quite.
So hopefully we'll get
there at some point,
make it totally free.
Just a screenshot.
It's pretty much the same as making
any other disk image except that
there's one pop-up menu that allows
you to choose the encryption method.
Currently,
we just support one encryption method,
which is AES.
But it is built on top of CDSA,
so we could support different
algorithms at some point.
Okay, I just want to go quickly
through keychain access.
Keychain has been in the
OS since actually 8.6,
so at this point I would imagine
people are kind of familiar with it.
Okay.
Every user on 10, since 10.0,
has had a keychain by default,
and it's unlocked when you log in.
One change that we've made going to
Panther is that now a new user that is
created will have a login keychain as
opposed to just the default keychain.
Like before, we had, you know,
if my account was John,
my default keychain
would also be named John.
Now it is named login.keychain.
And that allowed us to help determine
which keychain people were really,
really using for their login keychain.
It also made it easier for people to make
a second keychain in case they didn't
want to have one unlocked by default.
It is a network-safe format,
so it's okay to put, you know,
[Transcript missing]
A couple of things that you might not
know about your keychain settings,
that these are good things to do.
If you go into keychain access,
you can set a timeout on lock,
because by default,
your login keychain just
stays unlocked for the entire
time that you're logged in.
So you can set that to be five minutes,
whatever.
You can also set it so that
it locks when it sleeps.
If people have been using
that feature on Jaguar,
it didn't work quite the way
we wanted to with closing the
PowerBook and going to sleep.
So that has been fixed in a nice way,
and it does the right thing.
When you close it, like, for example,
it'll forget the credentials for
your encrypted disk copy images.
So when you open the thing back up again,
it's going to prompt you again.
And if it doesn't get the...
Either the keychain password
or the disk image password,
it's going to unmount the disk.
So that's just the behavior
you want on a portable device.
Okay.
If you are in the federal space,
you might be aware that we had
released a product called the
Federal Smart Card Package,
I think in January or February,
and it was available just as a...
I think $49 product on
the federal web store.
The interesting thing is that we've
rolled that functionality into Panther.
It's not going to be of interest
to you unless you're actually in
a branch of the federal government
that uses common access cards.
But the thing that's sort of generally
worth noting is that we have put this in.
We've done changes to, for example,
screen saver, login window,
things like that so that they can be used
with alternate authentication methods.
So there are other companies that have
come out with this type of functionality,
and it's worth looking at that too.
I know CryptoCard has announced things,
ActiveCard.
Sony has come out with
a fingerprint reader.
So all these things are leveraged
on top of the authorization API.
Okay, so at this point,
I want to bring back up Eric.
I want to introduce him, too,
because he forgot to
say who the heck he is,
but he is the...
John, what are you?
Security Product Marketing Manager.
Right, for OS X.
There you go.
Thanks.
Is the mic on?
Thanks, John.
So I saved the cool stuff for
myself when putting this together.
So we didn't talk a lot about
what's in Panther right now,
and I'm gonna go through
some of those things,
some of those nifty features right now.
As you can see here under
your Internet Connect dialog,
we now have VPN support
for L2TP over IPsec,
yay.
And that's in client and server.
Yeah, pretty excited about that.
Also, we'll go in a little deeper
about what we've done for 802.1X.
So we also support that as well
for wired and wireless networks,
which is great.
So a very simple-to-use screen for
the user to put in their settings.
Not a lot of difficulty there.
Also, multiple configuration support.
So this is great.
Kind of excited about this.
So if you're moving around from
network to network or you're traveling,
you can just set up.
I'm at home, I'm at the office.
And however you need to
connect from that point.
So we support that as well.
And that's also in VPN and 802.1X.
Now, you're probably familiar
with the built-in firewall,
but for those of you who are not,
I wanted to mention it.
We have a built-in
firewall based on IPFW.
Quite simple to use.
And your users, as they enable services,
the ports automatically open
within the firewall themselves.
Or you can customize it
further for other well-known
services that you'll see there,
Apple Remote Desktop and what have you,
or things that aren't listed.
So we give you full
customization of the firewall.
And also within the
OS transport security,
a lot of this drops down to the CDS layer
and makes calls from that point.
But of course, we support OpenSSL, TLS,
and all of the variants of that.
And then, of course,
OpenSSH is built into the system.
So that kind of ends a lot
of the features that are
in the OS around security.
We also are very concerned about holes
that pop up because let's face it,
they do arise.
So we try to keep you as
users informed about this.
We also work with cert and first to
receive and distribute information.
We have a mailing list that
you can get hooked up to.
So if any alerts come out,
you can get those sent to you so you
don't have to actively check yourself.
In addition, we have a
An email address,
that's what the thing is,
that you can report security
rules that you may find,
and we actually do take
them quite seriously when we
research every one we get.
And then also updates to the system,
if there's any security holes
or vulnerabilities that pop up,
we can update those quite easily with
security updates right within the system.
So just to summarize some of the
recommendations we have here today,
controlling physical access is huge.
That's paramount.
I completely recommend using
open password security,
and it looks like a lot
of you guys do here.
Use the home directories,
and as you know now,
that file vault is there,
and you can just click a setting
and your users will be secured.
Use the built-in firewall.
Why not?
It's there.
It's free.
What the heck?
Only turn on the services that you need.
There's a no-brainer.
And don't make everybody an
administrator unless you have to.
So I'm going to bring up Sean Geddes.
Sean's going to talk about the current
and future initiatives of OS X and some
of the neat work we're doing around that.
So I brought all my authentication
devices because I was afraid
I wouldn't be able to get in here.
The area of security within government,
many folks may initially think,
that's just government,
doesn't affect me.
But I think all of you,
don't you all pay taxes?
I'll pay, somehow you're all impacted
by what our government does.
What we want to do is
share a little bit with,
related to the OS,
related to efforts that Apple's
doing and external entities are
doing related to our product.
So within not only our government,
but within governments
literally around the world,
there's the need to...
Evaluate to provide assurance
that the product truly is
providing those secure services.
We're leveraging a lot of open source.
How does Apple or how
do others ensure to you,
the customer, to integrators, to others,
that that product is providing that
true security out of the box and
with some of the recommendations
that Eric and John and Dave had
mentioned a little bit earlier?
So common criteria,
widely known also as ISO 15408,
for those of you kind of in
the other part of the world,
this is to address just that.
How do you evaluate and how do
you put a level playing field,
so to speak, on evaluating the
security of the products?
Just to hit on some of these,
it's really to address
issues in the markets,
international computer market trends,
evaluation or evolution.
So the first thing is the evolution
of adaptation of earlier criteria.
If you saw the chain of events
of TSX and other products,
other documents,
other government agencies that
have involved themselves in
making this a ubiquitous or a
globally recognized approach.
All of this feeds into providing a
much larger worldview of how to look
at products with respect to security.
So with that,
I'm going to turn it over to Eric.
Thank you.
Thank you, John.
So the first thing I wanted
to do was to talk about the
common criteria with Apple.
First of all,
I wanted to give a couple points to
let you know really what this is doing.
First of all, it's an independent,
certified lab that's looking at OS X,
OS X server, to validate vendor claims,
validate what Apple is claiming
about the product itself.
So the feature set and the capabilities.
Again, I had mentioned about
being globally accepted.
It's ISO 15408.
But what is Apple's target?
What are we doing with respect
to Mac OS X and Mac OS X Server?
We are shooting for pretty much kind of
the standard for all operating systems,
and that's the controlled
access protection profile.
The profile is really what the
functional requirements of the OS,
what are those features,
what's really in the product itself.
The reference at the end there is
really for the assurance level.
How sure are you or how sure
can the independent lab provide
to you that indeed that claim,
that functional feature,
is again tested or truly is there?
And again, a level three goes through a
methodically tested and checked process.
There are multiple levels in this
that get into a more granular kind
of... providing evidence and all that.
Again, those features are indeed there.
They're there.
But I think for you all,
you want to know what value
is it going to be to you,
right?
What is Apple's evaluation of OS X and
OS X Server for common criteria?
What value add is that
going to be for you?
One of the key things is that, you know,
we've talked a lot
about that here at WWDC,
the open source kernel.
When you're dealing with a security of
OS X and OS X Server... you're truly
looking at all of the open source code.
You're looking at the kernel.
You're looking at all the security
frameworks that have been mentioned.
So you, from the developer standpoint,
are now getting, for you,
an independently certified
open source under the framework
for the operating system.
Oops, I'm going backwards.
You always have to hit the right button.
Okay, for developers, not only that,
but you now have a secure foundation
to build your solutions on as well.
Much like I mentioned about
securing a foundation for OS X,
since Darwin is the open source,
that could now be an embedded
system for other solutions that
you yourself are building as well.
So some of the things that we want
to move into and share with you
from a perspective of what we're
doing within the government space,
or at least with the
collaborative within that space.
Kind of the second line there,
security built in, not bolted on.
I guess that's kind of our
mantra within our space.
There's so many products,
so many vendors that have solutions
where security is an afterthought.
Hopefully you have seen that Apple is
doing this right from the start.
But not only building
things from the start,
you have to have that evolution and
carry that through with products.
One of those approaches is,
and I'll get into a little
bit more of this later,
is a secure trusted OS consortium
that Eric had mentioned.
This is really an open, collaborative,
community-based environment for
enhancing the security of Darwin.
Again,
you're going to have this independently
certified kernel and security frameworks.
You need some additional enhancements
to keep up with the times,
keep up with security innovation.
Again, that's the focus of Stas,
and we'll get into a little
bit more about that in a bit.
Some other efforts that we
do is we've done some work
as well relating with DARPA.
DARPA is a
Defense Advanced Research Project Agency,
and an individual there is Doug Monn,
who has been heading
up one of his projects.
It's called CHATS.
It's Composable High Assurance
Trusted Systems.
The reason that's important is,
as I just mentioned,
Stas is focused on enhancing
the security of Darwin.
The focus of chats is to
enhance the security of all
open source operating systems.
So we are kind of a spoke
in that whole process.
One other thing is related to Kratus.
Kratus, for those of you who don't know,
is a cooperative research
and development agreement.
And what that does is allow
two or more parties to work
together in a very collaborative,
very interactive way to
share the technologies,
to really get a little bit deeper into
solutions without looking specifically
at producing a product at the end
of the month or the next quarter.
It's real research related
with experts involved.
John had mentioned the federal
smart card integration that we
talked about a little bit earlier.
We did that specifically
to address Department of
Defense needs for the CAT card,
which I've got a few of those here.
This is yet another way that the
government and Apple being involved
in this as well is trying to provide
another alternative for authentication,
providing some mechanism for you,
the user, within the OS.
And finally,
those of you who are familiar with NIST,
National Institute on
Standard of Technology,
there are many initiatives
going on there that we're a part
of that is key to impacting,
again, not only government,
but guidelines and standards
for rolling out enterprise and
businesses after that as well.
Many groups look to the guidelines
there for providing the direction.
So let's look at just some of
these in a little bit more detail.
I mentioned a little bit about
SecureTrustOS Consortium.
This is that collaboration
between the public,
private, and academic sectors.
So there are university folks involved,
there are industry folks involved,
and there are government folks involved.
Again, an open collaboration,
all looking at the open source,
addressing specific needs,
working together on issues,
maybe highlighting some
areas that need work,
and then going forth kind of both with
the passion and with the need within
the organizations to make that happen.
It truly becomes a collaborative
sandbox because you're
working through those issues,
and this then becomes
a staging area for X.
Essentially what we're doing
is we're enhancing the kernel.
It rolls right into Darwin CVS that
becomes the foundation for OS X.
So it truly becomes a
staging area for Mac OS X.
I want to give you at least some idea,
both from the high end
and from a low end,
of the type of things that we address.
One thing is,
kind of maybe from a more intense area,
is actually evaluating the
original snapshot of Darwin at
the time against other efforts,
maybe even like SELinux or some of
the other initiatives that have been
funded and implemented in the past.
." Where does Darwin stand
within that mix?
What's the level of effort to bring
it up to speed or up to kind of
on par with those same solutions?
So that was one of the efforts
that had already gone on.
Then there were some other ones
that may seem pretty small,
but they have a much bigger impact,
and that was even leveraging the
CDSA architecture within even just
one of the modules within Apache.
Well, what are we doing going forward?
Some of those projects...
Are security guidance documents.
I know I've been talking to several
folks here at the conference,
and we don't yet provide any real
documentation for what do I do to really
configure kind of after I get out of the
box and after everything's shut down,
what do I really get?
Where do I go?
Where do I... I see kind of a document
to tell me what to do to lock this
down to some agreed level of security.
So that's one of the
efforts moving forward.
That's kind of at the low end.
And at the high end is kind of nirvana,
right?
The ultimate goal is this true SE Darwin,
so to speak, kind of on parallel
with SE Linux approach.
That's the Stas effort.
I mentioned CRETA.
CRETA, again,
is the Cooperative Research and
Development Agreement.
It's focused on security specifically,
right?
A CRETA can be anything.
A CRETA can be just looking
into any type of technology
solving a real-world problem.
In here, let's first take a look at...
what it does immediately
for Apple and the partner,
if that's in the situation.
And then we'll look at how it
impacts and affects you all as well.
So first of all,
when we're focusing on this,
there's a big technology transfer, right?
Apple does some awesome stuff
internally with a security team
and within managing new projects,
bringing in the open source community.
But when you're really trying to
address security at the whole,
holistically, from all angles,
you really need to reach out
and exchange that technology,
both intelligence, the expertise,
and literally down to the code level.
And that's where the
technology transfer comes in.
Sharing of expertise, ideas.
It really is now enabling the
partners to get further along
than they would on their own.
That's kind of a given, right?
If two people are working on the problem,
you're going to solve it much
quicker if you're both working pretty
good and sharing your resources.
You're going to get the problem solved
sooner than if you're both working kind
of in parallel on your own solution.
So the real important thing to you is,
how is Apple's involvement in
Accraida going to help you?
The first thing is that much
like I mentioned with Stas,
now you're getting the benefit
of an enhanced foundation
to build your solutions on,
whether you build it directly on OS X,
OS X server, or directly on Darwin with
security frameworks.
You're getting that as part of your
development process literally for free.
You're getting that as part
of the solution from Apple.
The same thing, technology transfer.
You may not have that area of expertise,
maybe in encrypted storage
containers like the encrypted
disk copy image or public key.
That may not be your expertise,
but now you're getting that
essentially for free from this effort.
And the real key thing is that now
you can focus more on your killer
application that makes you more money
rather than focusing on trying to get
and build in all that security from
the start within your application.
And the key thing is that we're
all benefiting from this effort.
It's not just an Apple.
It's not just a partner.
We're all benefiting
from all this effort.
John had mentioned about the smart card.
DoD has pretty much led the way on this.
And what I wanted to show
is a couple highlights.
One thing is this is a multi-purpose ID.
I think there's specifically about
five very directed types of solutions
that are being solved or needs
being solved by the smart cards.
The physical identification,
the secure logging into systems,
the... the signing and
encrypting of mail,
secure web access.
And I think many of you have
seen this in other sessions.
But it's a multi-purpose card, right?
Multiple functions.
And I've got tons of cards
so you can see that it goes
beyond the need for just one.
But again, the key thing,
the reason I want to bring this out for
you all is that they already have issued
2.4 million of these just within DoD.
And they're issuing 10,000 a day.
That's a business opportunity.
This is where the money
comes in for you all.
Not only that is that
as things move forward,
the estimate is about
another 1.3 million a year.
This is only,
I'm only referring at the moment to DOD.
Then you have all the other agencies
within the federal government.
Many of you probably should have
seen areas even within state
local governments are looking
at types of solutions like this.
Again, big opportunities for you.
Those who also are in the area of
biometrics within the DOD space,
they're looking to incorporate
that as well in with smart cards.
So again, this is where you can start
leveraging the technologies
that are on the platform.
On the right side,
you're seeing a little bit of the
anticipated deployment numbers.
Some of those are a little
bit debated by various folks,
but being upwards into 2005,
possible deployment of up into
the 16 million card range.
Again, just within our space.
Maybe at this point I guess
I need to bring back Mr.
Hutzler or I guess the whole team.
So thank you very much
for allowing me to share.
So this is going to be part of
your pack when you get your DVDs,
so I just thought I'd put those on
there for you as reference later on.